Building your first PC from parts can be frustrating, but with our videos
It should be easy even if you're a total noob
At least that's the theory. To benchmark the quality of our teaching
We've assembled a dream team made up of the only people shorter than me at the company
Oh my god
Olamide and Maria. Ladies, have either of you built a computer before?
No, never.
That's a bit of a problem because you are going to be racing
Against me to see who can build a gaming rig the fastest.
Wait, what?
Did they not tell you?
No, they know nothing.
Oh, that's great
Hey, but we don't know anything about this
Don't worry
You guys are gonna be on a team against me and you can watch any YouTube videos you want
As long as they're from LTT
And you guys are gonna get some lifelines. You'll get some extra help
I on the other hand will be given a more challenging build, but this looks the same actually
Oh does it?
Hardline water cooling
Okay
Like this okay segue to our sponsor
That's bad
MSI if you're MSI-ing a new motherboard the MPG Z790 Carbon Wi-Fi 2 is a great option
With features like a pre-installed IO shield and Wi-Fi 7 compatibility
There's no reason you shouldn't pick one up at the link below. No, that's a thumbs down link below
Each team will be equipped with our wits these tools including the gorgeous retro edition LTT screwdriver
LTTstore.com and two hours
At the end our builds will be judged with penalties and bonuses depending on our speed and the quality of our work
Games master David will explain all of that as we go. Maria, Olamide, feeling confident?
Yes, kind of
As long as we can see a video of someone. Of you building a PC. I'm just someone now
Before we start can we go lower?
On the short end of the stick. Really? This seems like a pretty good height. Really? Can we?
Seems fine.
You're almost our height.
Oh my god. Why is it going down?
Oh it's still going down. Oh my god. Stop.
What's going on?
Is this an okay height for you guys? No.
Come on I never get to be the one making the short jokes. Three, two, one, go!
Okay, where should we
Watch the video here? Yeah, yeah
You can bring that laptop with you over here if you want. Under normal circumstances in one of these competitions
I would fool around a little bit, but I have been burned time and time again doing that
So instead I'm gonna get things going. Our builds today are based on our standard workstations for a few reasons
One, we already had multiples of these components kicking around the office. So that's
convenient. Two, these parts were picked for easy assembly in the first place and
Three, it means that when we're done, we can just deploy these systems to our team
Convenient. How would you rate your technical ability out of ten?
Eight?
I don't know
But I mean yeah
Yeah, I feel like you know, eight, ten. Do you think that computers and sewing machines have a lot in common? No
For our CPU we've gone with the core i5-13600k
It's got 14 cores and it's just generally good bang for the buck
Also, unlike its roided out i9 cousins, it is pretty darn power efficient
Don't, oh Maria, don't stop you're gonna want to keep going. I feel like we're gonna take forever
Yeah, I mean we chose the easiest gaming PC build video and
Linus said here it was so hard to screw it up. So hopefully we're good. Am I allowed to help them?
Yeah, of course
If you want to lose. Yeah, are you guys into POV content? This one is really easy to follow along with. Okay, perfect
It's a little bit less modern, but this one's really good
And then if there's any details you want to use how to build a PC the last guide you'll ever need
I should have just let them struggle, but I can't I want to I want a healthy competition. Okay
For SSD, we've gone with the Crucial P5+. We like these because they're cheap. We don't put any data on our workstations
It's actually against company policy. Everything is supposed to be on a redundant and backed up server
No DRAM cache, but they have a five-year warranty and have proven to be very reliable in our deployments
I need to tell you guys about the lifelines you get so you get a medium help
Which is me coming there and I'll be able to instruct you but I can't touch anything for two minutes
Okay, and then you're also gonna get a video call with someone much more knowledgeable than me Jordan
You'll get another two minutes with him
You have to match it with the dot at the corner of the socket, but I don't see there's no dot
Wait, wait, wait. Yeah
For our RAM, we've gone with some Trident Z5 DDR5 6000 CL30
It's not the tightest but it's definitely sufficient for office use. Okay CPU installed
I think. I gave Linus every possible out on hardline watercooling making it simpler
But he assured me he could do this in two hours
I don't know if there's any orientation. Can we ask David maybe?
David, David. Do you want to use your lifeline?
We have two hours with you, right? You have two minutes with me. Two minutes
Okay, David
There's an orientation for the RAM like yeah
So if what I would do is I would line it up and see where the notch in the RAM lines up with the notch
Here Linus you want to use slots two and four right furthest away from the
Am I being asked for tech tips right now? That's that's what you do
Here's a tech tip open up the box and find your manual
Ah
For our motherboards, we're using the Asus ProArt Z790 Creator, which is
Very much a necessary overkill. We've talked about this on WAN show
But Asus insisted on sending some sick gear over if it meant that they could watch Linus lose
What do you mean watch Linus lose? I'm not losing
It's got 10 gig Ethernet Wi-Fi 6e dual Thunderbolt 4 ports
PCIe Gen 5 and 4 M.2 slots Linus
Do you think that the LTT video library is enough of an edge for a new time builder?
Oh, yeah, you can easily build a PC with the LTT video library
That's the purpose of how to build a PC the last guide you'll ever need. Okay
There you go
Okay, there you go, okay, did they just get the RAM installed one of them they're moving a little faster than I'd like right now
Yeah, this one is high oh no
Sometimes it's good to rotate things around so you can see from another angle. Hey, that's an advice for both teams. Uh-huh
Okay, no, it should be fun yeah, okay
Okay. Oh
I think you just need to rotate this. I don't have nails you have
Nails on it
Yay
Okay, we can progress, you know in some ways
I'd actually rather do custom water cooling than an AIO cooler these days because of all the
Hookups and everything and all the RGB and all that stuff
Can be such a nightmare. I've noticed that you're not using the manual we use it for a little bit
But then we prefer to use at least me. I prefer to use the video because I'm more visual. Yeah, I win
Good teacher
Oh that you will need that I took it off the table because Linus isn't using that he's got something way more complicated
Okay, so this is the cooling for the CP. I don't know
Linus has to you all custom water cooling. So he's got EK parts including a velocity to water coolant block
We're gonna be using the not to NHU 14 s on this side, which is our standard one comes with a 140 mil fan
How does it make you feel when you watch your boss in a video?
Weird, I think this is the first
Yeah, yeah, but it's good I mean you explain really good
Thank you
Before I move on to water cooling my GPU
I want to address a comment that I've seen a lot of times and it's that
Building computers is easy. It's just Legos for adults
Number one, it's Lego not Legos. The plural is Lego and number two. I just think that's really unfair
There's nothing wrong with the fact that they're taking their time looking things up going slow
And when you're experienced, you don't think about all that extra overhead that's involved in building a PC. I am
Functionally done. I've mounted my cooler
Even though I haven't hooked all the water tubes up to it
And as soon as I put this GPU in and plug this in I have finished building this PC
That doesn't mean that they're doing anything wrong. I can't help but that's not quite correct. Oh, no, what's not correct?
You want all of them on the other one?
Okay on number two. Let's make sure everything is in number two. Yes, okay. I
Think we fix it
Hey, you should watch this
Oh
So we need to rotate it. So if you guys are looking for knock to a cooler instructions
Uh-huh. I believe you can look at the short
We did recently mounting one of their coolers from 15 years ago or whatever. It was the same
It's the exact same mounting mechanism all these years later
It's been about 43 minutes since we started and both teams are making progress
Oh
No way, oh, thank you Corsair, it's prepadded dang it Corsair you're making it too easy
You've already picked the right ones, but they should go on before
Oh this this one
And
There you go and now
Did you guys get the cooler removed yet for this have you have you guys done this part yet? No, what is that? Oh gee
Okay, so we are good because the cooler will be facing this way so Linus says like
Injected I don't know why it's this funny but hearing them talk about Linus says do this and to do that
I'm like saying I didn't say nothing
Okay
They don't have anything in the case yet
We need your help
Two minutes of your hill minutes of my time. Yeah, we're supposed to put something here before put in this. Yes
Okay, no, no, no, sorry that goes directly into it if you look into that there's like it'll screw right in there's yes
That's the only way it'll go right now. Yeah, and then
We need to screw those. I was given multiple options for a pump reservoir combo
This might be a little easier to mount
Or at least it would have been if anyone had checked to see if this case has any 140 millimeter fan mounts
Oh don't oh don't just do it
This is cool. EK includes a little sticker. That's a whole guide now, so you can just take this peel it
Slap it onto wherever you want it and you're good to go
How are you doing over here, oh, I'm terrible
I've never built a computer before either. So this is huh? I'm doing good. Thanks for asking
The motherboard and everything's done. Oh my god. Okay. Hopefully the water cooling goes wrong and then we have time for it, you know
ouch
Wow
Maria somehow manages to make even trash talk sound pretty nice, you know, I mean, hopefully
Hopefully you screw up everything and die. Okay, that looks good
I think we have to connect this
Also, do I have fans for my rad? I thought the case came with fans. Ah
But it's not
It does not
We're going on a field trip
Let's go. Oh, they restocked the snacks
Yes
Get some game
Hey, there we go classic LTT edition 120 mils. Oh, yeah
Oh
David we did the cooler. Yay, you make a progress
Hey, where's the excitement for me making progress David?
Nice ah
Well, that makes it a little easier
That's a demerit
My camera op knocked out Glenn hit that I didn't hit that Glenn loses points. I'm glad you lose points
No, I
Will need a different radiator I'm giving the games master a demerit
For sabotaging my build it fit in the case that I originally tested with but we changed cases because Asus was so generous to send
this one
here
So we need to align that
Perfect you never have to look far at Linus media group
To find water cooling crap. Oh, that's an interesting little 120 millimeter
It's full here, there's something missing. Okay. Yes, then we need Jordan
Hi Jordan, how are you?
Oh, we're struggling
We have the GPU and the power supply here
Okay
Oh, yeah, that's a good idea, okay
I
Mean to end this video with the longest time somehow. Let me think
They found screws. Okay, this GPU doesn't fit in this case. Are you kidding me? Oh, it doesn't look like it. I
Don't need to close my side panel. No, I won't judge you on that. Okay demerits for the game master
No one needs to close their side panels
Okay
Okay, wrap the cables of the power supply we can cheat I
Mean I guess I could just bend I was planning to just use 90 degree fittings for all of my bends
It's a bit of a hack, but I think it still counts as hard line, especially when you're time constrained
CPU this one
My fans lined up I realized this was just a bare radiator
It helps it all I'm having a great time, too
Why do you choose to put the fans on top of the radiator fans go on top of the radiator for easier maintenance down the
Line also, these are orange and I didn't want to see them in there. This is the side of the bars
Okay
I'm gonna use the CPU fan header for the pump
It's far more important that your pump is running than that
Your fans are spinning in that that'll kill your system a lot faster experience that first time a little while ago
They have the names here of the things we have to connect. So CPU should be somewhere around
And then the other one is the PCIe. I
Don't see them
Let me see things
Yes, you have 45 seconds of my help. Okay, where should we connect the PCIe and the CPU?
Connector PCIe is for the graphics card, but this graphics card won't use this. It'll have a specific 16 pin one
I will attempt one freehand bend if this doesn't go flawlessly
Then I will not attempt another and I'm just gonna go for fittings. Yeah, this thing is not very hot
Oh David, this is not fitting here
Can I I'll try it and if I can't do it then
You're you're not wrong
Here we go
Kind of ugly but it'll do right now the problem is this is too thick to fit under here and
so
In order to get this inside
Normally you could kind of like jiggle it in kind of make it work, but I actually don't think we have
Enough clearance to make that work
I'm so we might need your help. I might not be good enough for this. What do you need?
Can you make this fit watch the master?
I thought so. Oh wow
What do you mean, thank you
You have to do it
Well, what I'm gonna just hand them the W they're almost done sure this is the last thing once you figure it out
High five
Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice
How's the water cooling going Linus?
Extra demoralizing doing hard line tubing in a case where the thing isn't even gonna fit together when you're done
It's just extra airflow because I need so much airflow in my water-cooled computer
All right, are you gonna keep bending or are you gonna fit it? Uh, you know what the bending was pretty fast
I think it's gonna be faster for this one, too
How do you find the screwdriver while you're building the computer for the tiny screws here inside like this toby? Yes, perfect
It's good. If I'm gonna lose I might as well at least sell a few screwdrivers
Thanks, ladies
Yeah, I didn't help
Man, I love hard line tubing. I love my build taking triple the amount of time for all that performance benefit
You ready for a high-risk maneuver?
We're gonna fail. Let's fail in an exciting and spectacular manner
Who needs a guide when you have a need
Holy I think we got the angle
How are you finding those little connectors
I can't find a lot of like because they have names on the connectors and we try to match those
Mm-hmm. The only thing that says panel here is this side, but I don't think that matches there
So like the real question is if we need to use all of them are or not
I
Probably do but why it's not working five more minutes. No, no, no, no, no
I'm gonna use a little tiny piece of tubing as a bridge. I
Think that was the right one. Yeah
Okay
Fingers crossed who knows if it works or not. We have good chances of winning this
What do you think? I don't think so
There
Okay, there's a red light
You're missing one very important cable
Which important cable the one that connects the front power button?
Here we go freehand 90
Yeah, oh, that's my ugliest one yet
It's on right? I mean, it's not the fan is not on. I think we're past the two hours, but neither team is finished
Do we go till someone finishes? Yeah
All right
I'm gonna be first. Let's go. I'm just gonna help you at this point
Thank you. Let's plug in a monitor. See if we're getting display. I'll need a monitor to
What do you think Glenn? How's it look?
Huh
Tastes like candy
Okay
Just get it
Please work
All right, okay now we're cooking
Let's give the CPU a receipt here. Shall we there's bent pins in my socket at least three what but it worked
I didn't bend them on the way out and I can do a board swap in like four minutes if I have it
I'll be back. All right, let's go
Technically, they're not done yet
Okay, I can still win this I think the best learnable today is that PC building it's a team exercise everybody works together
Okay, it's working. The GPU is working
Hey, I posted to LC in Windows they got to figure that out still we do we have a view for that
I don't know figure it out
I
Still gotta get my GPU back in gotta get my loop filled. They've just got to get out of the BIOS. That's lucky
It's actually the same BIOS
We still got this
Okay, so what did you what did you to do there but walk walk the camera through what you did
Hey
Everyone's fortunes turning around this thing's coming together
Yes, I am putting in cable ties right now if you're not gonna finish on time you got to go for those bonus points
Okay, one minute left
Okay presentation right plating
Ten nine eight seven six
What was our total time
Just over three hours and 20 minutes, but I'm very impressed and proud of both teams. Oh, thank you
Do note mr. Judge that my CPU and GPU temperatures are in the top right of the screen Wow
Okay, that we don't know. No people can do that. I
Have to say
The fact that you were able to hardline this computer. This is a good-looking system. Yeah
So the front looks real good, and that's the most important part, but let's go take a look at the back
Oh, you don't even have the side panel on
It's so much cleaner
Yeah, that was okay. I'm a little bit disappointed by the lack of LTT cable ties
There's some on the front there's two
Okay
Yeah, I mean it's not perfect but for a rush job, this is this is a nice system
Unfortunately due to technical difficulties. I had to step in and help the first impression is it's not quite as clean
Cable management leaves a little bit to be desired
Though you had cable ties. I brought those specifically read cable management. They need cable one minute in management
I
Really had to
It's not as bad as Linus's because there's just not as many cables, but yeah, why is this going over?
Before we go any further I realized we've never even talked about this GPU I
Talked about every other component and then they sent over these GPUs because we needed matching GPUs for this
They're 4080s. They're super quiet. They have gigantic coolers on them. They're really fast. I
Actually have something that David missed this computer. Unfortunately is a fire hazard ladies
Your high voltage PCIe power connector is not in all the way
However any points I might have taken off for that if I was judging which I'm not I would have given back for using my
Trademarked little tire pretzel in the CPU fan cable trick. I like it. I like it. Good job
This is really hard. I
Think you gotta give it to us. I
Feel really bad doing this, but I think I am gonna award the victory to Linus
Oh
This beautiful t-shirt Wow, did you make this shirt?
You know what I would have given it to them really to be perfectly honest with you
Yeah, we don't know if I broke the motherboard
That's true. There's also a lot of water in my computer. You didn't look that closely
Okay
We should put it on together, what do you think you guys are doing great? Yeah
Oh, yeah, yeah now smile
All right, well this devolved extremely quickly you guys did great GG
And GG to our sponsor
Squarespace are you looking to create a website but lack the technical expertise?
Squarespace is here to help their all-in-one platform
Simplifies the process of getting your website up and running quickly with Squarespace
You can grow your business online through their marketing features which include SEO support email campaigns and social tools
They offer a wide selection of award-winning mobile optimized templates and their commerce platform provides everything you need for merchandising to checkout
you can also access analytic insights to optimize your website's performance and
Identify areas that need improvement if you require assistance Squarespace has help guides and a 24-7 support team
So visit squarespace.com forward slash LTT to receive 10% off your first purchase
If you guys enjoyed this video, you know what? Why not check out Sarah's first build was that a short-circuit LTT?
I can't remember really good video though